Dataprep-specific section on smart functions (#4619)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/data-preparation/smart-functions-bundle/data-types.md

---
weight: 30
title: Data types
layout: redirect
---

This section describes the data types you receive as inputs and produce as outputs in Data Preparation smart functions.

### DeviceMessage {#device-message}

A `DeviceMessage` represents a message received from a device transport.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|

> | `payload` | `Uint8Array` | Yes | The message payload as bytes. Always present, even if empty. Use `TextDecoder` to decode text-based payloads, or use a binary library (protobuf, CBOR) for binary formats. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `payload` | `Uint8Array` | Yes | The message payload as bytes. Always present, even if empty. Use `TextDecoder` to decode text-based payloads, or use a binary library (protobufjs, cbor2) for binary formats. |
```
Or link to the libraries section

Author: ee10304e3
